hey guys Ju hear from eetu language in
this lesson I'm going to take you
through conclusions the final part of
your IELTS writing task - it's very
important to get the conclusion right
because it really wraps up your entire
essay and you can put some signals into
your conclusion that really tell the
IELTS examiner that you've understood
the question and that you've structured
your essay beautifully so let's have a
closer look at it so we're going to look
at IELTS writing task 2 and conclusions
specifically the objective of this
lesson is well we're going to recap
introductions and paragraphs just
quickly we're going to recap that all of
the different writing IELTS writing task
2 question types and finally I'm going
to teach you how to write a powerful
conclusion for each one of those
question types so do watch this lesson
it's super important right so first of
all introduction so we've learned that
an introduction a good introduction to
your IELTS writing task 2 will have
three sentences are not really sentences
but certainly three parts usually three
sentences so what we're going to have is
firstly a neutral background sentence
then we'll rewrite the question in our
own words and then we'll tell the reader
what we're going to tell them this essay
will discuss for example if you need to
watch the introduction video do click
here it's up there somewhere you can
find it there it's a whole video on how
to write the introduction okay then we
looked at paragraphs and we worked out
that we needed a four sentence structure
of an opening sentence a supporting
sentence the third sentence we provide
evidence in the form of statistics or an
example for example and number four we
do a closing sentence to wrap that
paragraph up and the paragraph looks
like this way you have the opening
sentence Mopsy give me back my drawing
tool the opening sentence goes into the
supporting sentence which then provides
evidence and
you give your closing sentence and we
got this beautiful cyclical cyclicals
structure there all right conclusions
okay okay okay okay conclusions are a
little bit tricky because we need to
think about the question types remember
that in the Isles there are really
they're really there are five main
question types but then two of them
where you have to also give your opinion
so in fact you really have to learn
seven different question types that you
might see on test day let's have a quick
look at them before I do it's really
crucial that your conclusion connects
with that question type because remember
that the IELTS examiner only has a few
minutes to look at your essay and he or
she is just quickly glancing over and if
he or she can say okay are good in the
conclusion they've really wrapped this
up connected it back to the question
prompt then your marks for task response
will increase quite substantially so we
need to understand these question types
so there was problem solution there's a
double question there's an agree
disagree there's a discussed both views
without an opinion and there's a
discussed both views and give your
opinion as well as an advantages
disadvantages without an opinion and the
advantages disadvantages with your
opinion so let's learn how to write a
basic conclusion for each of these which
you can make pretty and improve let's
look at problem solution first
so the question prompt was every year
more and more students choose to study
online rather than attend classes on
campus what do you think are the causes
of this what solutions can you suggest
this is problem solution question so our
conclusion this is a very simplified
form by the way will look something like
this this essay discussed the causes in
addition this essay discussed the
solutions okay so what you do in that
causes part in capital letters in the
solutions part is you briefly recap your
paragraph 1 in your paragraph 2 let's
look at it again so
si discuss the causes of why students
are leaving universities which in brief
is because of convenience in addition
this essay discussed the reasons or how
universities can compel students to
return to university which insured would
be I don't know whatever it is you wrote
so that's the basic structure of course
you need to fill it up a little bit
double question how do you write your
conclusion for the double question well
here's the double question let's just
look at this part here so you have some
sort of question prompt then you have
why do students prefer to study online
and what can universities do to extract
attract students to study on campus this
is the double question prompt so our
conclusion really needs to reflect this
you can't just write a generic
conclusion so what we'll write is this
this essay discussed question one which
was why students blah blah blah in
addition this essay discussed question
two which was blah blah blah blah blah
again you need to take this and what's
the word you need to put some meat on
the bone you need to put some meat on
the bone you can't just have well here's
the analogy you're you're giving the
IELTS examiner a nice chicken dinner and
if you give the IELTS examiner chicken
bones
he or she won't be happy he or she wants
to see a big fat chicken right so you
take that basic structure that I've
showed you there and you fill it up and
make it a bit pretty but that's the
basic structure that you should use
remember there's no opinion here you
just needed to say that this essay
discussed which was question one why
students prefer to study online and it
discussed question two which was what
universities can do to attract students
back on campus and you briefly summarize
your two arguments cool agree disagree
studying online is far more effective
than studying on campus to what extent
do you disagree or disagree well this
essay discuss the reasons why studying a
lot online is or is not
more effective than on-campus study
including my ideas from paragraph 1 and
paragraph 2 in my opinion I completely
partially slightly wholeheartedly
moderately whatever agree or disagree
that in short this conclusion it looks a
bit long and complex but let's look at
the question prompt again study online
is far more effective than studying on
campus to what extent do you agree or
disagree this conclusion absolutely
answers that question this is a
discussed the reasons why study online
let's say let's say we went 4 years he
is more effective than on campus study
including reasons of convenience and
effectiveness right so maybe your
paragraph one was about convenience for
example your paragraph 2 was about
effectiveness right whatever you can
write that's what your paragraphs you
choose in my opinion I completely agree
that online study is more effective than
blah blah blah okay that's a tricky one
let's look at discuss both views no
opinion now this is where it gets a bit
well not tricky but something else to
remember five main IELTS question
prompts then you have the two where you
have to also give your opinion if they
don't ask for your opinion do not give
your opinion okay it's critical to
remember that if you give your opinion
and they didn't ask for your opinion you
will lose marks or if you don't give
your opinion and they ask for your
opinion you will also lose marks so you
need to read the question carefully and
again your conclusion really needs to
connect to that question prompt so
discuss both views that is no opinion
here let's look at the question some
people think studying on campus is the
most effective way to learn while others
believe that studying online is more
effective discuss both views no opinion
so Michael
version as simplified conclusion will
say this essay discussed the reasons why
study online is effective because of x
y&z in addition this essay discuss the
effectiveness of studying on campus as
well including one two and three no
opinion they says I just discussed the
reasons why studying online is effective
including reasons of convenience and
effectiveness in addition this essay
discussed the effectiveness of studying
on campus which is which which which is
a result of having access to the tutor
and having your peers around you
whatever your ideas from your paragraphs
were okay so you build that out but this
is the basic conclusion let's look at
the same question type with the opinion
so this time it says discuss both views
and give your opinion so we just say
this essay discuss the reasons why
studying online is effective as well as
the effect even effectiveness of
studying on campus in my opinion online
study is more effective or classroom
study is more effective because of
convenience and whatever it is you've
written you can jazz it up a little bit
but just look carefully so this essay
discuss the reasons why studying online
isn't effective effective you can say
including reasons of including blah blah
blah from your paragraphs as well as the
effectiveness of studying on campus
including blah blah blah in my opinion
so you've made it very clear to the
examiner that you're giving your opinion
and then you choose one let's say online
study is more effective because of X Y
and Zed or maybe you don't give that but
what I'm trying to say is your
conclusion answers the question as well
but it wraps up it summarizes what
you've already done in the essay if you
want to have a look at a full one please
watch one of the other video lessons
that I've done on give your opinion or
advance
just disadvantaged as I take you through
the whole thing and explain it sentence
by sentence this looks really
intimidating and you're probably sitting
there thinking okay I understand it when
J is saying that that's fine but for me
to memorize remember all of this on test
day it's really confusing it does take
practice it takes practice
and it takes probably some feedback from
an expert teacher like one of the
teachers here at E to language but I can
confidently say that if you do practice
this and you understand how to structure
your essay you can do it you can it's
not so much memorizing anything as much
as being able to think logically and to
structure your thoughts to understand
that question type ago ah this is the
disgust both sides plus give my opinion
so in paragraph one I'll discuss this
side paragraph two I'll discuss this
side in the conclusion I'll say this
essay disgusts ideas from paragraph one
and paragraph two in my opinion I
believe blah you see you don't need
really need to memorize much at all you
just really need to understand what
you're doing that's the critical thing
here fine all right let's look at
advantages disadvantages with no opinion
so some people think studying online is
more effective than studying on campus
what are the advantages and
disadvantages of studying online and I
said this essay discussed the advantages
and disadvantages of studying online in
summary the advantages include x y&z
I'll be sorry that should take
disadvantages that's my mistake there
well the disadvantages include one two
and three okay no opinion I've
completely connected this back to the
question prompt the IELTS examiner's
going to look at this as long as I sort
of add a bit more meat on the bone the
IELTS examiner's going to look at this
in thing that's very good looks like an
evil IELTS exam
to make the IELTS exam and look a little
bit nicer there we go
cool lastly advantages/disadvantages
plus your opinion so this is the same
sort of question but it says discuss the
advantages and disadvantages of studying
online and give your opinion about which
one is best okay so we write this this
essay discuss the advantages and
disadvantages of studying online in my
opinion online study is more
advantageous because of X Y and Zed or
in my opinion classroom study is more
advantageous because of X Y and Zed
that's a nice little conclusion there's
one more question type for this one and
it says do you think the advantages of
studying online outweigh the
disadvantages this is also asking for
your opinion and you say this essay
discussed the advantages and
disadvantages of studying online in my
opinion the advantages of online study
far outweigh the disadvantages because
of X Y and Zed or in my opinion the
advantages of classroom study far
outweigh the disadvantages because of X
Y and Zed cool guys if you need some
help with your writing for ions and we
know that it's difficult do check out e
to language comm think about signing up
for one of our paid packages including
one-on-one tutorials experts feedback
from native english-speaking teachers
live daily classes heaps of practice
material and lots lots more this is a
it's tricky IELTS writing is a real
trick but it's not a conspiracy it is
possible to get a high score you just
need to understand what's going on okay
cool all right jelly bean for you I'll
see you guys soon